# In Search of Christian Freedom

## Chapter 14: A People for His Name

Every Christian should make God Name Known, evident both in the OT and NT. It
appears more than 7k times in the OT. HWs are convincced they are the only ones
making God name known for the frequency they ues it.

### Whence the Name "Jehovah's Witnesses"?

Russel did not advocate for a distinctive name for the movement. They were
simply caleed "Bible Students", and articles were published defending the use of
the name "Christian", simply, to not fall into sectarianism. It was in 1931 that
Rutherford came up with the name Jehovah's Witnesses, arguing that "Christian"
had no meaning at all anymore. He uses Isa. 43 as a justification, a passage
targeted to Israelites of the Old Covenant.

Acts says that God's people had been called "Christians", and the NWT says it
was by "divine providence". ([include reference]) Hesus said their disciples
would bear witness of his name. Using another name other than "Christian" only
encourages more sectarianism and dpearts itself from Scripture. Paul said that
lots of sects would exist, just as Jesus said there would be lots of weed. True
Christians would be identified by their coduct, not by a special name.

### "Restoration" of Name --- By Whom?

IN early WT days, the frequency used by it in its publications of God name is in
equal steps with general writings of that time. Bible commentaries from that
time used the Name in them. There are Christendom translations that use the
Name, and even hymns. Only in the 19th century there came the practice of
substituting God's name with "LORD" or "GOD". WT also have used photos from
historical places where they depict the tetragrammaton. It was the effort of
Christendom scholars that restablished God's name almost the 7k instances it
appears in the the text, early in the 20th century. That was the American
Standard Version. Though available, WT didn't really used it as its official
translation. Only in the 50's they produced their own translation.

Titles as "Father" and "Lord" are rarely used by JWs. In prayer, generally
Jesus~name is only mentioned at the end, as a formality. It is clear that they
use the name extensively, even though, for great part of their history, it
didn't seem to be a great issue.

### The Crucial Factor

Examining Christ and the Apostles' usage of the Name gives good clue to its
importance in worship. The only times it appears  in the earliest sources
available are 4 in in Rev. It appears in an abbreviated form, "Jah", in the word
"Hallelujah", which means "praise Jah". All other mentions to Go appears as
"Kyrios" or "Theos".

Nonetheless, the NWT uses extensively the name "Jehovah" in the NT. Its
justification is a theory that the NT writers must have used the tetragrammaton
in their original writings, but those were later omitted by the tradition of
men. Before Christ came, it was already a custom to not say God's name for it
being too sacred, and it was only limited to the priesthood. The Greek Bible
translation of that time, the LXX, omitted God's name.

### The Evidence from Ancient Sources

For a long time, it was generally accepted that the LXX translations didn't
include the tetragrammaton from the start, but early 1st century manuscripts
show that some, at least, could have used it. Origin also claims, in the 3rd
century, to know such translations that render God's name.

The WT goes far in justifying that the writers of the NT had such translations
and that they certainly were quoted in the NT containing the tetragrammaton.
They quote scholars in their support, but they don't mention that those are
hypothetical scenarios, and that we can't tell for sure what happened at that
time. Even if it was rendered, that doesn't also mean that they used to
pronounce the name. They could not have followed the jewish tradition of not
saying the name, but, instead, saying "Lord", or "God".

### A Far Weightier Source of Evidence

A codex containing Paul's epistles, generally dated to 200 AD, after
reevaluated, ca ben dated to the second half of the 1st century, around 81 AD.
This redating makes it a great reliable source to know what was the practice
among early Christians, specially for at least the apostle John was alive. It
containst no references to the tetragrammaton, and seems to follow the same
practice of the LXX translations, substituing the Name with "Theos" or "Kyrios"
in OT passage quatations. If WT's theory should stand, that the presence of a
document in early period is attestment of it's use, then the conclusion should
be that the NT writers didn't use the tetragrammaton.

### Justification Sought Through Various Hebrew Translations

Not all of the accounts in the NT of the NWT uses the tetragrammaton in the
Hebrew Scriptures quotations. Some were ad hoc, reflecting no justifiable basis
other than personal choice. The WT often quotes hebrew translations of the NT,
ranging from the 14-19th centuries, that use the divine name. Those have no
value in a sane translation methodology. The principles of translation argue
that earliest manusripts are always the preferred choice for their fidelity to
the text. The WT admits it in one article, even though it doesn't follow it's
own advice.

### Inconsistency of Claims

WT claims and uses quoatation from NT scholars to attest that the NT content
wasn't corrupted, but transmitted with high fidelity by God's providence. At the
same time, they claim that it was early corrupted by having the tetragrammaton
removed. If it was that important, couldn't God have preserved it? Doesn't
testimonies like Origin's and Jerome's show that it could be possible, as late
as of the 4th century, in Jerome's case, to have the tetragrammaton preserved in
Greek texts? Why were Christians writings different? There seem to be no
evidence in favor of a so called "restoration".

### Testimony of the Existing Scriptures Themselves
