# Metadada

+ Title: Religion of the Apostles
+ Author: Fr. Stephen de Young

## Preface

In scholar studies, there's the impression that early apostolic Christianity was
simple, where people reunited at their homes, listened to teachings and didn't
have any dogma besides Jesus being the Messiah and dying for our sins. Thus,
Catholicism and Orthodoxy are seen as later developments. The goal of the book
is to argue that most of what is seen as such was there in the beginning.

It will show the continuity between the OT and NT by putting them in context
with Second Temple Judaism (STJ), characterized as a multitude of faith
expressions existent in the inter-testamental period, from 500 BC to 70 AC. This
often is not done by scholars, who assume that the judaism of that period was
the same of the Rabbinical period, which, in fact, was developed at 500 AC, as a
response to Christianity. The book will show how Christianity and judaism
weren't separate religions, but, in early periods, an addition of what people
came to comprehend Jesus was in relation to the rest of jewish culture, being a
continuous evolvement, instead of a new religion from scratch.

## Introduction: Paul, a convert?

Often, Paul, in light of a dichotomy later proposed in the Reformation
characterized by a fight between Law and Gospel, is saiid to be a convert. He,
when speaking of his call to be an apostle, alwas talks about his vision in the
road to Damascus. It is a parallel of Isaiah's vision, where he sees Yahweh in
His throne calling him to preach to Israel, and Ezekiel's vision, where he sees
the chariot of God, and where he receives the caliing to be a preacher to the
nations. Paul lived in a period where "Merkabah" (which means "Chariot" in
hebrew) mysticism was practiced in judaism. It consisted of prayerful life,
where people could experience visions like the one Ezekiel had by reciting the
Shema (which would later evolve into hesychasm with the Jesus prayer). Along
that, there were writings. They developed a vocabulary to talk about heaven,
which was understood to have seven levels, and that one should work to ascend.
Paul seems to be a practicioner  of the Merkabah tradition. In 2 Cor. 12 he
talks about a vision he received of the "third heaven", and his vision of Jesus
on the road to Damascus is analogous to Ezekiel's one, where he sees Christ as
God (In the Merkabah tradition, sme would see the Angel of the Lord in a
throne.) and receives his call to be an apostle. Indeed, all apostles, and the
seventy sent to preach, were directly appointed by Christ, and some were
appointed to other tasks. (Christ had many more followers than the apostle and
the seventy sent to preach.) Thus, Paul, as the prophets, saw his call as a
continuation of his professing faith; a revelation that should be further
anounced to his brothers.

About the Law: to Paul, Christ was the Law giver. He didn't want to abolish it,
but advocated that we could fulfill it, in a way we could never do by ourselves,
with the help of the Hoy SPirit, which is prophecized in multiple places in the
OT. With the Spirit, we can bear fruit that even surpasses the Law expectations.
(Gal. 5) That was the establishment of the New Covenant.

## Chapter 1: Divine Father and Son
